If I had to define SciWeb, I would say that it’s a platform designed to help Bronx Science students feel in control over their academic destiny. SciWeb has evolved— constantly and rapidly— over its almost two year existence. This evolution is inspired by my own learning journey, reflecting on how I think, learn, and excel. Fundamentally, SciWeb is the product of a rigorous self-examination, translated in Python, HTML, and Javascript. 

Just like individual learning outcomes are shaped by peers, the SciWeb learning platform had to reflect the insights from other members of the community, both students and teachers. That’s why we applied to make a club that teaches its members how to leverage their own academic experiences to help improve the design of the SciWeb app and create new tools for their peers to benefit from. I rallied a small group of good friends, and we worked hard to create a prototype of the site to apply for formal club approval. Unfortunately, our application got denied because our club wasn’t “discussion based”! We took this hard, but it motivated us to double down. Over the next year, we built a larger team of student coders and marketing people that met at night, continually building out SciWeb’s features.

Designing an elegant and scalable solution to academic excellence proved to be at least as hard as being excellent on my own. As we repeatedly delayed our supposed “launch date,” SciWeb turned from a budding start-up into a longer-term project. This quest to understand how we learn, how to solve this complicated institution that we call school, has captivated me and motivated me more than anything else. It’s a problem that contrasts sharply with the elegant pathways in machine learning. If we’ve created an end-to-end system that allows computers to learn, why can’t we do the same for humans? This fascinating interplay of machine and human learning has been the inspiration for many of SciWeb’s features. In ChatGPT, the transformer architecture stores information in an n_dimensional vector space. In XG Boost, simple functions called weak learners are combined to form highly complex, nonlinear outputs. In SciWeb, we devised a concept map architecture, where each node in the map represents a concept that can be logically induced from its connected nodes, much like a weak learner or an n_dimensional vector. Our novel learning architecture allows the student to discover the intuition behind a complex topic such as solving an integral or how force accelerates objects. All of this is facilitated with strategic prompting of the latest GenAI models. 

Isaac Newton discovered gravity when the apple fell on his head. SciWeb’s goal is to recreate this serendipitous discovery, not by chance, but by design. It’s to perfectly position this apple right above the student’s head, to set up this aha moment for every Bronx Science. Through interaction with the SciWeb platform, we want Bronx Science students to develop their intuition and hone their reasoning skills in a bottom-up learning journey that is entirely self-driven and adapted to their unique learning styles.
